CMU-Africa

Carnegie Mellon University Africa

Educating the next generation of African tech leaders and innovators

College of Engineering: #7

U.S. News & World Report, 2025

Electrical Engineering: #7

Electrical, Electronic, CommunicationU.S. News & World Report, 2025

Computer Engineering: #5

U.S. News & World Report, 2025

Learn more

Explore all rankings

Master of Science in Electrical and Computer Engineering(MS ECE)→

Master of Science in Information Technology(MSIT)→

Master of Science in Engineering Artificial Intelligence(MS EAI)→

Oct 24

Last semester, CMU-Africa hosted its annual multicultural festival, bringing together students, faculty, and staff to celebrate the rich diversity within its community.

Oct 22

CMU-Africa held a workshop focused on revolutionizing malaria microscopy through advanced digital data collection techniques.

Oct 17

Kevin Rudahinduka (MSIT '14) reflects on his career and advocating for engineering practices and solutions all the way to the chief executive office.

CMU-Africa is developing context-aware security and privacy solutions for a more resilient African cyberspace. Learn more

The future of energy and mobility can learn from current African examples. Our study of the context and drivers helps us identify new challenges and opportunities. Learn more

CMU-Africa is a regional ICT center of excellence educating future leaders from all over Africa, who will use their hands-on skills and knowledge to advance technology innovation and grow businesses. Learn more

Faculty and students are working to obtain a deeper understanding of complex systems and leverage sustainable AI-based solutions, such as robotics, for assisting people and improving productivity. Learn more

Graduating global technology leaders

Producing critical, locally relevant innovations and globally competitive talent

Convening a continent-wide network for digital transformation

Leading a pan-African network of technology-focused universities who are working together to drive inclusive digital transformation on the continent through research, education, and entrepreneurship

Research to solve African problems

Creating digital knowledge to expand technology development and job-creating innovation

Entrepreneurship to create new businesses and industries

Supporting entrepreneurship and job growth in Africa’s technology sectors, in collaboration with higher education, industry, and government

October 26 2024

2:00 PM CAT

Carnegie Mellon University Africa

IEEE Extreme Programming Challenge

Hybrid

November 4-6 2024

Carnegie Mellon University Africa

2024 Internet Measurement Conference Remote PoD

CMU-Africa 2, The Upanzi Network Lab

November 7-8 2024

Carnegie Mellon University Africa

CMU-Africa & ANSYS: Role of Simulation in Digital Transformation of Africa Conference

November 16 2024

8:00 AM - 4:30 PM CAT

Carnegie Mellon University Africa

DevFest Kigali 2024

Carnegie Mellon University Africa Regional ICT Center of Excellence Bldg Kigali Innovation City - Bumbogo BP 6150, Kigali, Rwanda

africa-info@andrew.cmu.edu

X: @CMU_AfricaFacebook: @CMU.AfricaInstagram: @cmuafricaFlickr: CMU-AfricaYouTube: CMU-AfricaLinkedIn: Carnegie Mellon University Africa

Contact us

Careers

Make a gift

Faculty and staff resources

