News

Carnegie Mellon University Africa

Oct 24

Last semester, CMU-Africa hosted its annual multicultural festival, bringing together students, faculty, and staff to celebrate the rich diversity within its community.

Oct 22

CMU-Africa held a workshop focused on revolutionizing malaria microscopy through advanced digital data collection techniques.

Oct 17

Kevin Rudahinduka (MSIT '14) reflects on his career and advocating for engineering practices and solutions all the way to the chief executive office.

Oct 14

Three CMU Engineering and Public Policy students spent part of their summer conducting research at CMU-Africa. They collaborated with educators and stakeholders there to integrate their research with the needs and expertise of the local community, and to strengthen ties between students in Pittsburgh and Kigali.

Oct 10

Bernard Odartei Lamptey from CMU-Africa's Upanzi Network hopes to combat mobile money scam transactions by collecting more data about smishing in order to develop ways that users can protect themselves.

Oct 08

Natasha Mutangana (MS EAI '24) reflects on her experiences at CMU-Africa and with the Mastercard Foundation Scholars Program.

Oct 02

A delegation from CMU-Africa recently traveled to the United States, connecting with various organizations to strengthen global networks.

Sep 27

Barros will work in partnership with the leadership team to advance the mission of CMU-Africa.

Sep 27

CMU study explores the influence of melanin on near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS), an optical tool that leverages light-tissue interaction to measure changes in hemoglobin concentration and oxygenation.

Sep 24

CMU-Africa's Conrad Tucker is among eight faculty members to receive new endowed chairs in the College of Engineering.

Sep 19

The African Engineering and Technology Network, led by CMU-Africa, drives inclusive digital transformation on the continent through research, education, and entrepreneurship.

Sep 12

Ismaila Dabo brings his computational research expertise to the materials science and engineering department at Carnegie Mellon, and to bolster the department's engagement at CMU-Africa.

Sep 04

Over the summer, five CMU-Africa students dedicated their time to EPFL’s rigorous research internship — and some participated in a new extension of the program held at Yale School of Medicine.

Aug 28

As a Mastercard Foundation Scholar alumnus, Oke Obadofin (MSIT '24) aspires to be a contributor to community problem solving with a technical prowess developed at CMU-Africa.

Aug 20

Richard Djarbeng (MS ECE '24) participated in air quality research in Pittsburgh as part of CMU-Africa’s student exchange program last semester.

Aug 14

CMU-Africa's Kwan Lee has been named a 2024–2025 Wimmer Faculty Fellow by Carnegie Mellon’s Eberly Center.

Aug 06

A team from the Upanzi Network at CMU-Africa seeks to transform the practice of responsible research and innovation in the Global South.

Aug 01

The College of Engineering congratulates Eni Halilaj, Coty Jen, and George Okeyo, the 2024 recipients of the Engineering Dean's Early Career Fellowships.

Jul 16

The Upanzi Network and MicroSave Consulting (MSC) have launched a series of regional hackathons for African university students to identify new and innovative use cases of digital ID across the continent.

Jul 15

CMU-Africa hosts a six-week bridge program that invites recent graduates and students in their final year of study to discover the academic and technical skills that will promote their success in graduate school and beyond.

Jul 10

As the presence of mobile phones becomes increasingly widespread in Africa, digital services have allowed for more financial inclusion among low- and middle-income countries within the continent. A group of Carnegie Mellon University researchers led by Karen Sowon, a postdoctoral researcher at CMU’s CyLab Security and Privacy Institute, investigated these issues and recently published a paper on "The Role of User-Agent Interactions on Mobile Money Practices in Kenya and Tanzania."

Jul 08

The African Innovators Society at CMU-Africa empowers students to build various skills in entrepreneurship, form connections with other trailblazers, and make a positive impact in the world.

Jul 03

With the approval of Provost James H. Garrett, CyLab core faculty member Giulia Fanti has been named the new Angel Jordan Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, effective July 1, 2024.

Jun 25

Arinloye, who graduated this past May, made the most of her time at CMU-Africa through academics, research, clubs, and the exchange program.

Jun 21

Faculty at Carnegie Mellon University Africa hosted workshops to give educators important classroom resources, while Mastercard Foundation Scholars visited secondary school students to build their programming and computer skills. The goal is to get students interested in ICT early on so they can ultimately pursue careers in the field.

Jun 18

13 grants, collectively led by researchers from all members of Afretec, have been awarded to make a positive impact on health, environment and sustainability, and energy in Africa.

Jun 13

A team from the Upanzi Network found that 83 percent of digital square global goods used in the health sector included secrets that were at risk of being exposed.

Jun 05

picoCTF-Africa, now in its third year, helps participants improve their skills in vital cybersecurity disciplines.

May 30

CMU-Africa recently graduated the 11th cohort of students, which represented 16 nationalities.

May 21

Using existing filter tapes collected by U.S. embassies in Africa, mechanical engineering researchers have found a way to measure black carbon concentrations in fine particulate matter with only a reference card and their cell phones.

May 15

CyLab faculty members and students presented their research on topics ranging from mobile money practices in Africa to uncovering and identifying side-channel and evasion attacks at the 45th Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Symposium on Security and Privacy.

May 10

Carnegie Mellon University’s 2024 commencement keynote speaker will be Reeta Roy, who has served as the president and CEO of the Mastercard Foundation since 2008.

May 07

In the remote village of Nkambe, nestled in the Northwest region of Cameroon, Gabrial Zencha embarked on an academic journey that would eventually find him at CMU-Africa.

May 02

Ndze'dzenyuy Lemfon Karl is a MSIT student completing his last semester in Pittsburgh as part of CMU-Africa’s student exchange program.

Apr 25

In its second year running, CMU-Africa Week welcomed students from the land of a thousand hills to the city of bridges.

Apr 23

The Smart Mobility Lab has been launched in Kigali to foster innovation, promote sustainability, and advance digital transformation in the mobility sector.

Apr 19

Recently, CMU-Africa and the NAE held a design science workshop that aimed to transcend the boundaries of traditional design thinking.

Apr 15

Population analytics is a concept that has important downstream applications, like determining funding allocations, but these analytics can leak sensitive data about individuals.

Apr 04

CMU-Africa student Farida Eleshin (MSIT ’24) is concluding her master’s program with a final semester in Pittsburgh, where she’s working on several research projects in the CHIMPS Lab that focus on privacy and security.

Apr 01

Tagbo Niepa presented at symposia in Colombia and Morocco to facilitate international collaboration and apply innovations from his lab to global health challenges in different contexts.

Mar 28

CMU-Africa’s Center for Inclusive Digital Transformation of Africa held their 2024 Innovation Summit earlier this year from January 24 to 26, hosting students from 17 different countries across Africa as well as from CMU’s own Tepper School of Business.

Mar 18

French Club at CMU-Africa celebrates its students’ diversity and cultures from various Francophone countries in Africa.

Mar 11

Assane Gueye and Giulia Fanti have been selected by the United Nations Office of the Secretary-General Envoy on Technology to be part of a working group for the DPI Safeguards initiative.

Mar 06

Arsene Muhire (MSIT '23) is an example of how entrepreneurial success is driven by a deep-seated passion for technological solutions.

Feb 29

A team of nine students works closely with CMU-Africa’s administration to serve and connect with the student population.

Feb 23

Researchers use AI and high-speed in-situ imaging to optimize process parameters for 3D printing metal alloys.

Feb 22

picoCTF’s 11th annual capture-the-flag hacking competition for middle school, high school, and college students will take place from March 12 through March 26. Students interested in participating can register now by signing up for a free account at picoctf.org.

Feb 21

CMU-Africa’s Jema Ndibwile and collaborators from the Nelson Mandela African Institution of Science and Technology develop a solar-powered control and monitoring system for agro-machines using IoT technology.

Feb 08

Tanya Akumu (MS ECE '21) is an artificial intelligence research engineer at IBM and recently filed her first patent application in the field of trustworthy AI.

Jan 25

Researchers from the Upanzi Digital Public Infrastructure Lab have set out to make it easier to find and explore data about the African continent.

Jan 18

CMU-Africa student Sebastian Dakey pursues both a master’s degree in information technology and musical endeavors as a way to contribute to Africa’s transformation.

Jan 10

Three CMU-Africa students presented their research projects to fellow scholars and industry leaders at IEEE Africon in September and IEEE ICMEA in November.

Space in Africa

CMU-Africa students participated in a collaborative project, STAR.VISION, as reported by Space in Africa. Under the mentorship of Rwanda Space Agency (RSA) engineers, students developed algorithms for the project’s inaugural AI Algorithm Rideshare Programme 1.0.

Biometric Update

Upanzi Network's recent webinar for the Eastern Africa Digital ID Hackathon was reported on by Biometric Update. Throughout this webinar, experts discussed the importance of biometric authentication and the Modular Open Source Identity Platform (MOSIP).

Medium

CMU-Africa Director Conrad Tucker spoke with Medium about his work and strategies for the public to protect themselves against deepfakes and disinformation. “Policies need to be established to protect users so that they can be confident that the content they are consuming can be trusted,” Tucker says.

Carnegie Mellon University

Congratulations to the College of Engineering Andy Award Nominees. Cheer them on at the event on Tuesday, October 15 in McConomy Auditorium.

We offers early insights into newsworthy stories in engineering and exceptionally qualified scientific sources. To schedule interviews, film crews, or media-related visits, please contact the Marketing and Communications Office.

Learn more

Does your project or program have a news story to share with us?

Let us know.

Carnegie Mellon University Africa Regional ICT Center of Excellence Bldg Kigali Innovation City - Bumbogo BP 6150, Kigali, Rwanda

africa-info@andrew.cmu.edu

X: @CMU_AfricaFacebook: @CMU.AfricaInstagram: @cmuafricaFlickr: CMU-AfricaYouTube: CMU-AfricaLinkedIn: Carnegie Mellon University Africa

Contact us

Careers

Make a gift

Faculty and staff resources

